# Assignment 3: Lexer for tinyC

In this assignment we have to build a Lexer using flex for a subset of C language called tinyC. The grammar for tinyC is given in the problem statement of the Assignment. The input to the lexer is a file containing the tinyC code. The output of the lexer is a file containing the tokens generated by the lexer. The tokens are generated in the form of a list of tuples. Each tuple contains the token name and the lexeme. The tokens are generated in the order in which they appear in the input file.

## How to run the code

The code is written in C and uses flex for lexical analysis. The code is compiled using g compiler. The code is tested on Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04. The code can be run using the following commands:

```bash
$ make
```
To clean the directory of all the generated files:
```bash
$ make clean
```

## Files and their description

### **ass3_20CS10073_20CS10079.l**
This is the file which contains the code for the lexer. It contains the regular expressions for the tokens and the code for the actions to be performed on the tokens.

### **ass3_20CS10073_20CS10079.c**
This is the file which contains the main function. It contains the code for the driver program which calls the lexer and generates the tokens.

### **head.h**
This is the header file which contains the function declarations of the functions used in the lexer.

### **ass3_20CS10073_20CS10079_test.c**
This is the file which contains the test cases for the lexer. It contains the tinyC code for which the tokens are to be generated.

## **<span style="color:red">Warning</span>**
The ass3_20CS10073_20CS10079.c file sometimes gets overwritten itself when running the `make` command and hence some errors are given. Then you are advised to run the following commands:
```bash
    $ make correct
```
This will correct the ass3_20CS10073_20CS10079.c file and then you can run the code using `make` command.